! 



•* ' t 



A Study of Mutual Inductance 



i . 



in Coils by fi r^Rsicnt Effect 



R.S. 



1912 



TTNTV.OV? 
> UUDTOXB 



I 

H 



Ij5» 





A STUDY OF MUTUAL INDUCTANCE 



IN COILS BY TRANSIENT EFFECT 



BY 



LEO MAHLON APGAR 

AND 

RUDOLPH McDERMET 



THESIS 

FOR THE 

DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE 

IN 

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 



COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
1912 



f 



Ml 

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

May 26, 19*>2 

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE THESIS PREPARED UNDER MY SUPERVISION BY 
L^O KAHLOH A? OAR AUD RUDOLPH FC WSSMET 

ENTITLED A STIIHYLjQJL. MUTUAL IBDnCTAUCB 

IN COILS. BY SMaimJEBBSfil 

IS APPROVED BY ME AS FULFILLING THIS PART OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE 

DEGREE OF- BACHBLQB OF SCIENCE TTI SL^CT RTCAL KNGTN^RI^Q 



Approved: 




HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF ISL^.CTr! TCAL BHG.IHB3RIEG* 



2 1 5 »449 



UIUC 

V 



Table of Contents. 

Fage 

Introduction. 3 

Theory 3 

Special Apparatus 13 

Preliminary Measurements. 14 

Coil Constants 16 

Oscillograph Connections 19 

Oscillograms 20 

Index to Oscillograms 22 

Conclusions 23 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2014 



http://archive.org/details/studyofmutualindOOapga 



2 



Table of Figures. 

Page 

(1) Schematic Circuit Mutual Inductance. 5 

(2) Coil and Core Dimentions. 13 

(3) Connections Resistance and Inductance. 15 

(4) Connections Mutual Inductance. 15 

(5) Oscillograph Connections Break. 18 

(6) Oscillograph Connection Make. 18 

(7) Transient Curves. 26 -29 
(6) Oscillograms. 34 



3 

. THE STUDY OF MUTUAL INDUCTANCE IN COILS 

BY 

TRANSIENT EFFECT. 
I. INTRODUCTION. 

It is customary in the study of mutual inductance in coils 
to employ alternating currents; it is the purpose of this thesis, 
however, to investigate the feasibility of studying the same 
phenomena by the use of direct current. In other words it is 
proposed to investigate by oscillographic records the transient 
effect induced in one circuit by a definite non-periodic variation 
of current in another circuit, the magnetic fields of which are 
mutua llyinterlinked thru air paths. 

This investigation is not concerned with measurements of 
more precision than can ordinarily be obtained with an oscillograph 
Itwill also be facilitated by the employment of coils exactly 
similar in form and with identical electric constants. Under such 
conditions it is possible to foretell the transient variation in 
the current of one circuit under a known variation of the current 
in the second circuit. It has been proved by experience and is 
reasonable to expect that the condition most easily and accurately 
controlledis that of complete and sudden interruptionof a 
continuous unvarying current in one circuit. The problem, therefore , 
resolves itself into the comparison of oscillographic records 
with curves plotted from theoretical considerations and such 
deductions as may be made therefrom. 

II. THEORY. 

The electromotive force impressed on any series circuit 



may be expressed by an equation of the form: 4 

(1) e = r i + >$-g- f x cJ 1 d 9 
".'here e = e.m.f. 

r = Ohmic resistance, 
x z 2/rfL z inductive reactance. 

i 

x c z 21ttC - Con^ensive reactance. 

L z Inductance. 

C Z Capacity. 

f - Frequency. 
If instead of the variable "0" the variable time "t" be 
introduced and the relation between the variables is defined as: 

9 = 2/rft. 
the equation reduces to the form: 

(2) e = r i + + Cjidt. 

In equation (2) both "L" and "C", while defined as the inductance 
and capacity respectively, are, in reality proportionality factors 
representing the stored energy in the magnetic and dielectric 
fields in space. In usual circuits at normal voltages the dielectric 
energy represented by the constant "C" will be entirely insignifi- 
cant . 

If, however the magnetic flux produced by the current 
is interlinked not only with its own circuit, but also with 
another circuit, such that by its change, it generates an e.m.f. 
in the second circuit, and part of the flux produced by the 
current accompanying this e.m.f. is interlinked with the first 
circuit, and by its changes produces reactions in it; then this 
equation no longer holds and must be increased by another quantity. 

(3) ei = Pjij ♦ L|*4_ - M ^2_ + c/ijdt. 

As long as air paths alone are involved, current and flux are 



5 



exactly related and observe the same rate of variation. 

"di" "d^" 

The def ferentials dt and dt (where flux) may therefore 
be used interchangeably with the proper constants. 



between the circuits: that is, the number of interlinkages of 
one circuit with the flux produced by the second circuit, "ij being 
the current in one and "±2" being the current in the other circuit. 
It is thus seen that the flow of current can never be utterly 
independent of the currents inadjacent circuits. Equation (3) is 
therefore perfectly general and applies to all circuits whose 
physical constants do not vary from instant to instant. If the 
circuit contains only infinitesmal capacity (3) reduces to the 
form of (4) . 



In both (3) and (4) the question of algebraic sign is entirely 
a matter of convention and convenience. The negative sign appearing 
before "M" is intended to show that the two currents are relativly 
in opposite directions. 



inductance between the two circuits by two coaxial coils "M M" 
while the self inductance is shown by a single coil 
and the resistance by a zig-zag line as in fig. I. 



In equation (3) "M" is defined as the mutual inductance 



(4) 



Dia grama t icaly it is customary to represent the mutual 




M 




F<9 1 



The notation of Fig. (I) will be observed in the equations which 6 
follow. 

Tith the aid of equation (4) the circuit conditions of 
figure (I) may be completely expressed. 
(5) e-L = ♦ 



dt 



(6) 



e? = r 2 i 2 + L. 



dig 



di 



' dt dt 

By the fundamental op-rations of algebra and calculus it is the 
intention to convert equations (5) and (6) into a single simpler 
form which shall express the relation between the current "i 2 " 
and the time "t" . 



(7) 



Differentiating (6) and considering "eg" as a constant 
dip J d 2 i 2 d 2 i 



: dt' 



dt' 



Solving (5) for 



(8) 



di, 



M 



Differentiating (8) 



(9) 



d^i 



2 _ 



dt' 



= M 



r-i di- 
dt 



1- 



d-i- 



dt' 



Substituting both (8) and (9) in (7) 
- r 2 



(10) 



= T 



M 



di 



Transposing into standard differential form, 



(11) 
(12) 
(13) 



L . M 



d"i 

dt? 

d 2 i 



W Vi 



M 



dt M M 



d 2 i 



dt' 



dt' 
L- | r 2 ^L p r 1 



l r 2 + L 2 r l 



di 



d _l_ + r 1 r 2 i 1 = r a e x . 



LiL 2 -K' 



ILL . r l r 2 i ] c r r 2 e j 
dt L]_L 2 -M a L]_L 2 -H 2 



Equation (13) is a standard integration form. It involves 
complicated constants, however, and the further develcpement 



will be facilitated by the substitution of the form 



r . L l r 2+ L 2 r 'l 



r l r 2 
a= L1L2-M 2 

b " L^-M* 

Equation (14) may most easily be integrated by the 
substitution: 

From the relation above, 

dz - dy 
dx " dx 

d 2 z _ d 2 y 

dx^ dx' 



By these substitutions (14) is converted into (15). 

(15) d£z_ dz 1 
dx^ r ^° dx +az " 

Equation (15) is integrated by the equation: 

zr At x A - Integration Constant. 

k - Constant. 

£ 1 Base Naperian Logarithms. 

dx 

d 2 z _ k 2 Ag" kx 
dx 2 

Equation (15) in the integrated form is, therefore: 

(16) A£~ kx (k 2 -2ck+a) z 

Equation (16) can be true only on the condition that the quantity 
within the parenthesis shall be equal to zero. 
( 16a) k 2 -2ck -fa z 0. 

Equation (16a) is a pure quadratic having two real roots. 



Equation (15) in the integrated form is then: 

(17) | z A lC - k l x + Aoe" k 2 x 

(18) y = A x e" k l x + Aoe" k2x - -J- 

e l 

(19) h 1 "^* ^ 1 e- 1: , t + A 2 e" k2t 

By a precisely similar cycle of operations beginning 
with equation (5) an expression for " io" lQa y De developed. 

Co 

(20) igs _ + B 1 £" k l t + Eo6-k2t 

Both equations (19) and (20) involve integration constants 

"A^jAojB^ Bo" which must be determined. Obviously the terms 
e i eo 

• ^— and — =_ represent stationary conditions of current 
r t zh 

intensity and must not be confounded with the transient effect. 

In the determination of the integration constants in (19) 
and (20) it is necessary to direct attention at the conditions 
in the circuits which exist at any arbitrary chosen instant. 
One of these instants may conveniently be that from which time 
was counted. The following relations are then apparent if the 
transient in the second circuit is to appear at "make", 
t = i x = io= 

This is in accordance with the assumption made regarding 
the measurement of time. Solving equations (19) and (20) with 
these substitutions: 

e l 

A 2 = -(A 1+ I X ) Il= vT 

e 2 

B2" — ( B]_+ I 2 ) 1 2 = fZT 

(21) i x Z I 1+ A 1 6' k l t -(A^I^g-^t 

(22) i 2 = I.+ B^-^l 1 — {B 1 4S i )e~^ t 
Multiplying equation (5 ) by "L 2 " and (6) by "U" 



I 



(23) L P e 1= Lor n i, -HL,L r . dl l — LoM d % 

dt dt 

dio di. 

(24) Me 2 = Mr 2 i 2 +ML 2 — -M 2 -^ . 



Adding (23) and (24) and solving for " i " 

Lr>e n f- Men— r n L i-* — ( L -M 2 ) , 1 
(25) i 2 = ! ilf-i L 2 WZ 



Mr 2 



Differentiating equation (21) and substituting in (25) 

( 26 > dt^ a **i A i i ~ klt tM A i+ I i> € ~ k2t 



(27) i 2 z llr 2 ["L 2 e 1 -«.le 2 -r 1 L 1 i 1 -(L 1 L 2 ^ 2 ) (k^i " k l t -k 2 ^ifH) 

Here,as before, at the instant from which time was counted: 

tz ij = i 2 : 

Solving from (27) 

L 2 e 1 + Me 2 -k ^ ( L}_ L 2 — M 2 ) 

( 28 ) A 1= ( k ^ 2 )( L] Lg^ 

A 2 = -(A^f I x ) 

L 2 e 1 +Me 2 - k, I, (L-,L 2 - M 2 ) 

(29) A 2 = — * 

(k x - k 2 ) (L X L 2 - M 2 ) 

By am method of solution precisely similar , exactly 
symetrical expressions may be derived for "B^" and "Bg" . 
L 1 e 1 +Me 1 -kglgCLjLo- M 2 ) 



(30) B 1= 



(31) Bo: 



(kj_-k 2 ) (L X L 2 -M 2 ) 
l~ k l I 2^ L i L 2' 



L x e 2 + Me 1 -k 1 lg(L X 2 - M 2 ) 



(kj-kg) (L-j_Lg— M 2 ) 
The equations have now been reduce to a form free from 
differential notation without affecting their generality in 
the least. It is desirable in this thesis, however, to apply 
them only to the specific case in v/hich one of the coils shall 



10 

be short circuited. 



exist . 



On short circuit it is obvious that the following relations 



e 2 = I 2 = 0. 



Loe n - k I-> (L,L Q - M 2 ) 

(32) A,z- 



(33) An= 
C 



1 ( k x - k 2 ) (L-j^Lo- M 2 ) 
1 I 1 (L 1 L 2 



L 2 e 1 -k,I, (L,L P - M 2 ) 



"TT 



(k x - k 2 ) (L^-M*) 
From the solution of (22) 

B 2 " ~ B l 

(34) B 2 - 



Me x 



(k x -ko) (L X L 2 -M 2 ) 
Equation (22) under the short circuit condition, therefore, 
reduces to the simpler form: 

(35) uz zUl (i-^-r^) 

(k 1 -k 2 )(L 1 Lo-M t ') 
If, however, the transient current is to appear in the 
second circuit at the" break" a different set of conditions applies 
at the instant the current is interrupted 

e l 

i-,1 ig= t = 0. 

r l 

Substituting and solving equations (19) and (20) with 
these conditions. 

A 2 r " A l 

B 2 = -Cl 2 f B X ) 

(21a) i 1= I 1+ A 1 £' k l t - A l€ ' k2t 

(22a) i 2 r Igf Bjfe ^l 1 -{B^gf 

Differentiating equation (21a) and substituting in (25) 

(26a) z A 1 (-k 1 £- k l t +k 2 e" k 2M 



-1 



(27a) 



X 2 "Ere 



r " rr 

|L 2ei + Meg-f-r^i^L^M 2 ) A 1 (k ] C ' ,k l t -k 2 €~ k 2tj 



Here at the instant from which time was counted " break" 



t = 



(28a) 



1 Pl 
Solving from (27a) 

L2&1+ Meo -|-L^e^ 

1 (L3L2- M 2 ) (ki-ko) 

II 13 'I 



The equations for "B-^ and Bo in this case are identical 
with those of (30) and (31). 

If the circuits had been previously constructed so that 
they should be perfectly simi lar , then ; 

r 1 z r 2 z R. 
Li - L 2 r L. 

7ith this provision the constants "k^" and "kg" introduced in 

equation (17) are readily determinate. From the defining equations 

given in connection with (14). 

L R 



e ~ 



a =- 




b I 



k 1= 



1,2-M 2 
R 



L-M 

R 

LfM " 



k-,-kp; 2MR__ 
1 2 L 2 -M2 

Substituting these values in (35) 



(36) 



x 2 Z 



e l 
2R~ 



-Rt 



-Rt 



e L-M- " e l -m 

Equation (36) is the most general form for short circuited 
secondary circuit and similar coils. 



In the previous developement no assumption has been made 
regarding the flux interlinkages between the two circuits. It 
should be perfectly possible, if not probable , that all magnetic 
"lines from one circuit should be interlinked with the other 
circuit. In that case the mutual inductance would be said to be 
perfect, and from the manner of definition the mathematical 
condition is evidently: 



L-jLg : M 2 . 



If in equation (11) substitutions are made on the supposition 



of perfect mutual inductance; 



(37) 



di 



'l r 2 



r 2 e l 



dt 



L x r 2 4- L 2 r x 



L l r 2' 



L 2 r l 



Gimilairly for the second circuit; 



(38) 



di, 

t 

"dt" 



ri r 



+ 



l x 2 



rv-e 



2 e l 



L l r 2+ L 2 r l Ll^ 2 + L 2 r l 
For the short circuit condition; 

dio 



(39) 



dt 



+ r±r2 - 

L l r 2+- L 2 r l 



Equations (37), (36) and (39) are differentials of the first order 
and may be immediatly integrated, 
e. 



(40) 



(41) 



(42) 



1 1 = ~FJ" 



1- 



L l r 2~ Mr l 



e 2 



?2 



L l r 2+ L 2 r l 
1 L 2 r l^ r 2 



Me. 



i 2" L 1 r 2 +^2^1 2 L^rg-f- 1*2?\ 

Equation (36) was the primary form desired and applies 
only to short circuited secondary and identical coils. Equation 
(42) is to be considered the limiting condition for (36). 



L l r 2+ L 2 r l 
-rj.r 2 t 



-r 1 r 2 t 

-r^r 2 t 
6 L 1^2"*" L 2 r l 



13 

III. APPARATUS. 

It would be infered from the method of attack under "Theory' 
that the problem would be investigated only for identical coils. 
Such was the case. The first difficulty arose , therefore , in the 
winding of the coils. 

Two lathe turned wood cores of equal dimensions were first 
made with a proximately the size indicated below. 




Dimensions were not of importance as long as the cores were 
precisely alike. Holes were bored in each core while running in 
the lathe, and a spindle was subsequently turned to size so 
that the coils might be displaced from each other witnout shifting 
their axial position. By this method the distance between coils 
could be easily and accurately varied. 

In winding the coils every precaution was used in obtaining 
equal reactance' and resistance. Similarity in shape was insured 
by the cores. New double cotton covered number sixteen (16) 
Brown and Sharpe guage wire was employed, and the winding was 
done in a lathe at constant speed and tension, care being taken 



to manipulate the wire as little as possible. 7,'nen finished 14 
each coil had ninety three (93) turns in three (3) equal layers 
and the leads were wound together and brought out to eliminate 
inductive effect. As was subsequently proved the precautions 
were ' sufficient for the purpose at hand. 

Preliminary Measurements. 

The ohmic resistance of the coils was determined by the 
potential drop method. Storage battery current and precision 
instruments were used to minimize error, and the final value 
selected was the mean of many trials extending over several days 
to eliminate the effect of heating due to currents in the coil. 
Atmospheric temperature both during the time of making the 
measurements and the later trials did not vary enough to introduce 

a consistant error. 

The inductive reactance was obtained from the ohmic 
resistance and impedance drop. Sixty (60) cycle current having a 
wave shape closely approximating a sine was employed. 

The mutual reactance of the coils furnished a more difficul 
subject. 771 th currents of ordinary frequency the inductive effect 
bet7/een the two circuits was so small that it could not be measured 
with the instruments available. As a last. resort recourse was had 
to an inverted converter which was capable of yielding a desirable 
wave shape at two thousand (2000) cycles per second. This permitted 
the use of instruments of the available range. No correction was 
made for the inaccuracies of the metering instruments at this 
high frequency. It is to be expected that the instruments would 
show considerable deviation from correct readings chargeable 
princ ipally to their own reactance. The voltmeter exhibited high 




Fig + 



\ 



reactance and apparently had a negligible current capacity. At 
least its effect was not apparent in the current taken by the 
primary coil. No allowance was made therefore-; for the voltmeter 
current in calculating the mutual inductance. 

Measurements were made for four (4) distances between 
coils one of which was zero and the maximum of which was two (2) 
inches. It was impossible to exceed this distance on account of 
flux leakage, and inability of the instruments to measure the 
small currents and voltages. Primary current was limited by the 
capacity of the converter to about seventy five (75) hundreths 
amperes . 

"Owing to the transformer action between coils that coil 
upon which the e.m.f. was impressed has been and will be designated 
in what follows as the primary. The other, of course, will be 
designated as the secondary." 

Methods of connection are illustrated in fig. (3) and (4). 

Coil Constants. 

As explained under" Preliminary Measurements" the methods 
of determining the constants of the coils were more or less rough. 
They were, however, consistant with the purpose of this thesis. 
The oscillograph, while capable of recording extremely rapid 
fluctuations of current, is not capable of making records which 
admit of more than rough measurement. Under a weakened galvanometer 
field it may require as much as one ampere to operate the element. 
The accuracy of the data is therefore well within the accuracy 
of the oscillograph. 



Trimary 



Impedance 
Resistance 
Reactance 
Inductance 



2.123 ohms 
1.761 ohms 
1.357 ohms 
.003599 



Secondary 



Impedance 
Resistance 
Reactance 
Inductance 



2.133 ohms 
1.744 ohms 
1.232 ohms 
.003258 



Distance . 
Zero 



3ll 

4 



II' 

2" 



Primary and Secondary. 

Mutual Reactance 
5.447 
4.027 
3. 132 
2.221 



Mutual Inductance. 
.0004330 
.0003205 
.000249 
.0001769 



In the tabulations above the maximum variation in percent 
f the least corresponding value is ten (10) percent and occurs 
ith the inductive reactance. 



Rfl 



Element "JL 



171 



18 

Element 



I — VAV^WW 



Aw 



: i 



I I 

LJ 



^,7 J" 



Calibration 
a aaa a Circuit 



Shutter 
— Circuit 



May* I 



Element *JL 



TI 



Element 



■4VWWVW 

^ ■ 




1 _®- 



Calibration 

Circuit 



Shutter Circuit 



L 1 



^6 



19 

OSCILLOGRAPH CONNECTIONS. 

' The diagram of oscillograph connections is shown in Fig. (5). 

The following remarks are explanatory of this figure. 

The method of operation was briefly as follows: one 

element of the oscillograph was connected in to photograph the 

primary circuit; another to photograph the transient current 

« 

in the secondary circuit, while the third was to record upon the 
film a sixty (60) cycle timing wave. 

It was not preferable to connect the oscillograph element 
in series with the secondary coil for the reason that the resistan- 
ces were approximately in the relation of one and seventy five 
hundreths to one (1.75 to 1). This would introduce a very formidable 
error in the assumption that the secondary coil was short circuited. 
Neither was it possible on account of non uniform flux distribution 
to connect the oscillograph element as a shunt to a portion of 
the coil. It was therefore necessary to short ' c ircuit the secondary 
thru as small a resistance as possible and regulate the primary 
circuit so that the transient current thru the parallel paths 
would be of sufficient magnitude to opperate the element. As a 
result the permanent primary current was approximately fifteen (15) 
amperes. With this value of current it was necessary also to 
shunt the primary element across a calibrating resistance. Both 
of these resistances were made by winding wire between a row of 
staggered nails at opposite ends of a short board. 

The timing element was shunted around a resistance, 
the current thru which was controlled by a thirty two candle 
power incandescent lamp on a one hundred ten volt a.c. lighting 
circuit . 



It was expected that the phenomena und,er observation 
could best be observed on breaking the circuit after the current 
had attained a steady value. Accordingly a double break switch 
was arranged to open the circuit in air thru the action of a weight 
released automatically by the oscillograph shutter. The plane of 
contact of this switch was arranged perpendicular to the direction 
of motion and the whole was made as frictionless as* possible. 
Its action under the impetus of a twelve pound falling weight was 
extremely rapid. It was subsequently arranged to break between 
zinc contact 6 and under a heavy blast of compressed air. 

The oscillograph shutter was electro-magneticaly controlled 
and in series with the relay controlling the circuit switch. 
It was found by experiment that the rapidity of the switch action 
exceeded that of the shutter. A second relay was therefore 
introduced which should control the current thru the trip switch 
and introduce enough lag to allow the shutter to fully open. 

In the case where the circuit was to be made and the 
photograph of the transient and primary rise taken, the operation 
of the triping switch was reversed and the second relay eliminated. 
Every effort in this case was made to cut the time lag as low 
as possible. 

Oscillograms. 

A glance at the oscillograms of Fig. (7) immediately 
indicates that the transient of th. circuit does not follow the 
theoretical law. The curve of the primary break suggests the 
reason; arcing at the switch contacts. The records show that the 
arcing rarely endures for more than one one-hundredth part of a 
second which, as time goes, is a very small interval. Small as it 



1*5, however, it is very formidable in this connection. Viewed 
with the eye only the switch action seemed almost instantaneous 
with practical ly no visible arcing. As recorded by the oscillograph 
the switch opening was followed first by a very sudden decrease 
of current, then by an appreciable period of arcing, and finally 
by another sudden decrease of current as the arc broke. The two 
sudden decreases of current produce a transient of two nodes t 
neither of which has the apparent magnitude of the calculated value 

The use of a non-arcing contact such as zinc improves the 
condition very little. It, however, smooths out the more violent 
fluctuations in both primary and secondary currents. Breaking 
the contact in a compressed air blast has a more gratifying effect, 
in that, arcing is almost entirely suppressed and the transient 
current approches the theoretical condition. 

The attempts at photographing the transient on "make" 
were uniformly failures; so much so that after securing some 
bromide prints in which the effect was observed no attempt was 
made to secure films. The difficulty arose in the matter of getting 
an instantaneous contact of constant resistance. With the metal 
surfaces the resistance of the contact varied with the pressure 
and friction for the first few intervals of time. This effect;, 
superi mj osed upon the inductance of the external storage battery 
circuity practicaly eliminated the transient in the secondary. It 
appears extremely doubtful whether it would be possible to design 
any form of contact which would entirely eliminate these objections 
Accordingly as was . presupposed it seems most fear ible to study 
the phenomena at break. 



22 

Index to Oscillograms . 

(8a) Oscillograph element in series with coil Air break. 

(8b ^ Coils together.... ...Air break. 

(8c) Coil distance f ... ...Air break. 

(8d) Coil distance ... ...Air break. 

(8e) Coil distance 2" ... ...Air break. 

(8f) Coil distance lV . . . ..Zinc contact 

(8g) Ceils together.. . ...Air blast. 

(8h) Coils together... ...Air blast. 

Of this series (8a) has no special significance. It i.s 
included to show in exagirated detail the effect of the varying 
resistance arc on the transient current. 

(8i) Bromide print. Coils together. ."Make" 



23 

CONCLUSIONS. 

Certain inferences may be drawn from the progress of this 
thesis, part of which concern themselves with the difficulties 
of manipulation, and part with the significance of the results 
obtained . 

It is obviously not possible to interupt a circuit 
instantly, for , if it were possible, the instaneousi power develope 
would be infinite. A certain amount of arcing is therefore 
inevitable at"break" , and any arc of varying length is of varying 
resistance. The primary objection to arcing is, therefore, in 
the introduction of this fluctuating resistance. Any attempt to 
eliminate arcing, therefore, can only result in deminishing the 
interval during which it occurs, and not in entirely supressing 
it. Short intervals of time ordinarily insignificant are of the 
greatest importance. 

Of the methods employed in suppressing the arc that of 
a compressed air blast of high velocity is the most uniformly 
successful. A magnetic blowout of equal shifting effect lacks the 
cooling action of the blast, and non-arcing alloys require an 
appreciable time in which to become effective. Breaking in 
liquids requires even a longer time to overcome the sluggishness 
of the liquid. There is, in general, no advantage to be observed 
in suppressing the arc beyond that of eliminating the 
fluctuations in the resistance of it. 

The difficulties at "make" are insurmountable. The 
completion of the circuit between rigid contacts with suddenly 
applied pressure produces a variable resistance; between liquid 
contacts there is sure to be a certain amount of spatting and 



24 

inequalities of contact area, which produce the came effect; the 
application of the current thru the breakdown of a dielectric 
is very likely to be oscillatory. Superimposed upon these 
objections is the inductance of the external circuit. The method 
of "make" is therefore inherently more difficult than that of 
"break", and neither of them has the convenience or the general 
desirability of the measurements with alternating current. 

Capacity between turns of trie coils has 'been entirely 
neglected. It. is, however, apt to be and seems to be a formidable 
factor. Its calculation is one of the most tedious in electrical 
circuits, and with inductive e.m.f's. can be made accurate only 
with uniform distribution of magnetic flux. There is no logical 
reason for assuming that flux distribution can be uniform. It was 
for this reason that the accuracy of the occillograms was impaire 
by connecting an additional distance in the secondary circuit 
instead of including part of the coils for this resistance. Any 
attempt to include capacity calculations would invariably result 
in an approximation. 

In the transient current the effect of capacity is to 
prolong and diminish the peak and in some cases to produce 
oscillations, ^.uch oscillations actually appear in the record 
with the element directly short circuiting the secondary. 
They may be due, however, to the inertia of the element, in the 
damping fluid. The latter explanation is the most probable. 
It is interesting to note that, due to the phase difference 
between charging and magnetizing current, the results obtained 
with alternating current are surely of less accuracy than those 
obtained with direct current, and transient effect. Of the 
curves shown in the series of Fig. (7) the calculated values 



are arbitrarily selected as the criterion. Due to the effect of 
capacity which can not be eliminated or calculated with precision 
the oscillograph records are the more accurate and most truly 
represent the effect of mutual inductance; that is, with capacity 
the effect of mutual inductance can not be measured as accurately 
with alternating current as with direct currents. This is the 
only gratifying result of the investigation. 





u. cr i. ». s. ro*M » 




U- or >■ •- •■ roMM i 



1 



31 




r 



33 




